We published our app for Android, let's now do the same for iOS and for that, you need an Apple developer
account.
You can simply log in with your Apple ID and password and then you'll be prompted to basically turn this
into a developer account, accept their agreements and so on
and important, for this now, for publishing an app, you need a paid account which comes at an annual fee
of $99.
So it's more expensive than Android,
unsurprisingly I guess but you need this if you want to publish your app,
there's no way around that.
Now to publish an app, you need to go to iTunes Connect,
you can easily search for it, iTunes Connect and unfortunately this is in German and I found
no way to turn to English
but I can tell you the first item here is called my apps,
so we click on my apps and there, you can add a new app with the plus,
then choose new app and there enter a name like awesome places.
Choose a platform which is ios, primary language like English,
a bundle ID
and here we don't find the ID of our app. So we should go to the developer portal and register a new
ID.
You should be taken to the certificates identifiers profile page and click there on identifiers app
IDs and click on plus.
Now here you first of all have to enter an app ID description,
awesome places, whatever you like,
then you define an explicit app ID and that should be the app ID
you have in Xcode,
so here the bundle identifier. I'm going to copy that,
here you see that they also recommend the style we're using, then you could check which services your app
is about to use, none of these services apply to us here
so now we can simply click continue and then simply register this app ID.
So we're done,
once you did register it, it may take a little while until you see it here,
so reload the page, maybe wait a short time, create a new app and then it should show up here.
So again let's fill this out,
let's give it a name,
ios, primary language, here you can give it a unique ID that only you see,
basically for your invoices and so on
and then you click create and I already get this from another course so let me rename this and now create
this.
So now we're on this page where we, just as for Google Play, can fill this out, paste a url to
our privacy terms and so on, all of that. Now for us important, you can click on this here in preparation.
Once you clicked here, you can again add some images and so on
but you now also should add
your build and as it says here, you should use Xcode for this. To upload your app,
you need to go to product here in the menu again and click archive,
this will essentially package your app for the ios or the Apple App Store.
Once you're done, this archives explorer here opens and there you can validate it or simply upload to the
App Store,
so now it's checking everything here,
you can leave this as it is, you can automatically manage signing which is very convenient and click
next
and here I'm getting a warning that I have a distribution certificate but no private key installed.
You might not even have a distribution certificate
and we get this in these certificates account here where we previously added our app ID, click on certificates
here, click on a plus
and now we want to have a production certificate, an app store and ad hoc certificate. Click continue after
you selected this and
now you need to create a CSR file.
Now you can follow the instructions you see here,
we should open the key chain access tool and then go to keychain access, certificate assistant, request
a certificate from a certificate authority,
enter your email address here,
leave the CA email address field empty and save,
choose save to disk here and click continue.
Now this gives you a file which you should simply save, click done and then continue on the developer page
and choose that file,
so here I uploaded that file I created,
click continue
and now you can download that certificate and place it somewhere secure, like on desktop
as I will do here but of course save it somewhere else, somewhere where it's secure and you're done. Now
back in Xcode,
you can go to preferences and manage certificates and click on create next to ios distribution
if you don't have that yet.
Once you created your distribution profile there, you can try again,
go back to this archives manager, upload to App Store and go through all the steps
we already went through again.
So next, next you might be prompted to enter your key store password
which often is your or typically is your Mac OS password and once you did this, you can click upload and
now it will upload your app to the App Store.
Now all these steps and more documentation can of course be found in the links at the end of this module
to the official docs where you can dive deeper, troubleshoot things which might not work for you or read
more about this whole process.
Now this uploading process can take quite a while, so don't worry if it takes a bit longer,
now the upload finished for me
and with that, we can close that archive explorer. Go back to iTunes Connect and if we now refresh this
page or simply go back and forth and after a while, you will see build,
it can take a couple of minutes but it will be there and you then can fill out the rest, prepare everything
and submit your app for review.